README.md, before:

# Doctrine extensions for PHPStan

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)

* [PHPStan](https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan)
* [Doctrine](http://www.doctrine-project.org/)

This extension provides following features:

* Provides correct return type for `Doctrine\ORM\EntityManager::find`, `getReference` and `getPartialReference` when `Foo::class` entity class name is provided as the first argument
* Adds missing `matching` method on `Doctrine\Common\Collections\Collection`. This can be turned off by setting `parameters.doctrine.allCollectionsSelectable` to `false`.

This extension does not yet support custom `repositoryClass` specified for each entity class. However, if your repositories have a common base class, you can configure it in your `phpstan.neon` and PHPStan will see additional methods you define in it:

```
parameters:
	doctrine:
		repositoryClass: MyApp\Doctrine\BetterEntityRepository
```

## Usage

To use this extension, require it in [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

```
composer require --dev phpstan/phpstan-doctrine
```

And include extension.neon in your project's PHPStan config:

```
includes:
	- vendor/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/extension.neon
```

Commit message:

Update doc for real object managers

README.md, after:

# Doctrine extensions for PHPStan

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine)

* [PHPStan](https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan)
* [Doctrine](http://www.doctrine-project.org/)

This extension provides following features:

* Provides correct return type for `Doctrine\ORM\EntityManager::find`, `getReference` and `getPartialReference` when `Foo::class` entity class name is provided as the first argument
* Adds missing `matching` method on `Doctrine\Common\Collections\Collection`. This can be turned off by setting `parameters.doctrine.allCollectionsSelectable` to `false`.

If your repositories have a common base class, you can configure it in your `phpstan.neon` and PHPStan will see additional methods you define in it:

```neon
parameters:
	doctrine:
		repositoryClass: MyApp\Doctrine\BetterEntityRepository
```

Alternatively, you can provide your object manager and all custom repositories will be loaded

```neon
parameters:
	doctrine:
		objectManagerLoader: tests/object-manager.php
```

For example, in a Symfony project, `object-manager.php` would look something like this:

```php
require dirname(__DIR__).'/../config/bootstrap.php';
$kernel = new Kernel($_SERVER['APP_ENV'], (bool) $_SERVER['APP_DEBUG']);
$kernel->boot();
return $kernel->getContainer()->get('doctrine')->getManager();
```

## Usage

To use this extension, require it in [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

```
composer require --dev phpstan/phpstan-doctrine
```

And include extension.neon in your project's PHPStan config:

```
includes:
	- vendor/phpstan/phpstan-doctrine/extension.neon
```
